Add XIP-49: Decentralized backend for MLS messages (#78)
xmtp/XIPs: XIPs/xip-49-decentralized-backend.md

---
xip: 49
title: Decentralized backend for MLS messages
description: This XIP defines an architecture for a decentralized XMTP network.

> author: Rich Hua (@richardhuaaa)

Reviewer: @neekolas, @mkysel and @fbac all contributed too!

![Diagram illustrating message replication within the broadcast network](./XIPs/assets/xip-49/message-replication.png)

The purpose of this topology is to increase decentralization and trust, not scalability. Each node represents a conceptual grouping of multiple servers run by a single organization, and may choose to scale internally using traditional infrastructure techniques such as sharding and replication across geographies, ensuring that increased demand can be met efficiently.

#### 3.1.1. Node registry

The node registry serves as the source of truth for the complete list of nodes that comprise the XMTP network. This is achieved via the NodeRegistry contract on Ethereum L1, which maintains the following information for each node:

| Field | Description | Mutable? | Unique? |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Node ID** | A strictly increasing index for the node entry. | N | Y |
| **Public key** | A secp256k1 public key controlled by the node, used for signing and identification purposes.

> Format: Uncompressed point with prefix (0x04) [ P || X || Y ], 65 bytes | N | Y |

Reviewer: I think this breaks the formatting, at least in the preview

Author: Thank you for catching this, @richardhuaaa ! Fixing now.

1. Verify that the enclosed `PayerEnvelope` matches the originally published `PayerEnvelope`.
2. Verify the `originator_signature` or `node_signature`.
3. Verify `originator_ns` is within 30 mins of the client clock.
4. (Optional) Query a peer node, with an exponential back-off, for the returned sequence ID to ensure it was replicated.

In the event that these rules are broken, clients may publish a misbehavior report and retry against another originator.

On message query, in addition to validation required by MLS, clients must:

1. Verify the `originator_sequence_id` is strictly increasing per originator.
2. Verify the `originator_signature` or `node_signature` on each payload.
3. Verify the client envelope AAD on each payload:
    1. The target originator matches the actual originator.
    2. The target topic matches the actual topic.
4. Verify the client envelope AAD was correctly authenticated ([3.3.5. Cross-originator message ordering](#335-cross-originator-message-ordering))
5. Verify that the payloads are causally consistent ([3.3.5. Cross-originator message ordering](#335-cross-originator-message-ordering)).

> 6. Perform payload-specific validation, as defined in section XXX.

Author: @richardhuaaa - where should we link this? TY!

Reviewer: Good catch! I think this is sufficient

```suggestion
6. Perform payload-specific validation, as defined in previous XIP's.
```
